Now that you have learned more details about
the longitudinal level and why it is so important,
let's go over how to actually build a dataset at this level.
We're going to take the output that we created in the last part that we did together,
where we converted a synthetic line dataset to an encounter level dataset.
Now we're going to just inspect that dataset we
converted earlier at the line level to encounter level.
Next, we're going to use
a similar grouping and aggregate Pandas method like we did earlier.
The only difference is that the grouping field is the Patient ID field.
Here's the transform method,
similar to what we used before, and here is the output.
So now let's make sure that what's coming out is correct here,
by taking an example from the patient history.
This looks good here,
but let's take an example to see how this might look.
So we take a subset and select one Patient ID,
310, from the transform dataset that we just created.
Then I compare the encounter principal diagnosis and procedure codes values.
So for this imaginary patient,
you can see that there are five encounters ranging from 4647 to 7331.
The principle diagnosis code has one for each encounter, which makes sense.
So you don't see any difference here,
you just have one value for each encounter.
However, when we move to a procedure code,
this output looks different.
This makes sense since you'll see different procedures across encounters.
So this makes sense.
This is just an array for each encounter.
So this is the first encounter,
next encounter, next encounter,
the fourth encounter is null,
and the last encounter.
So this allowed you to see all this information that was aggregated up here.
You can see each individual column here.